NAME: Joseph Picchi
EMAIL: jpicchi22@g.ucla.edu


contents of "lab0.tar.gz":

	 "lab0.c":
		The C source module that compiles into the "lab0" executable. This
		file implements a program that reads from file descriptor 0 and writes
		to file descriptor 1, with additional functionalities as described
		here:
			"--input=filename"
				Uses "filename" as the program's input, making
				"filename" the new file descriptor 0.
			"--output_filename"
				Creates a file with the name "filename" and uses it as
				standard output, making "filename" the new file
				descriptor 1.
			"--segfault"
				Causes the program to run a subroutine that triggers
				a segmentation fault by attempting to dereference a
				NULL pointer.
			"--catch"
				If specified along with "--segfault", this flag
				registers a SIGSEGV handler that catches the
				segmentation fault and outputs a customized error
				message to stderr.
				If specified without "--segfault", this flag has no
				effect.

	"Makefile":
		The Makefile that for the contents of the tarball that contains the
		following targets:
			  "default"
				Compile "lab0.c" into the executable "lab0" using the
				flags "-Wall" and "-Wextra" for error checking.
			  "check"
				"lab0" is a dependency.
				Runs the script "check.sh", which performs a series
				of smoke tests for the "lab0" program.
			  "clean"
				Retores the directory to its original, freshly-untarred
				condition.
				Removes the files "lab0" and "lab0-605124511.tar.gz"
			  "dist"
				Creates the compressed tarball "lab0-605124511.tar.gz"

	"backtrace.png"
		A screenshot of a gdb session in which a segmentation fault was
		triggered using the "--segfault" option with the "lab0" executable,
		and a stack backtrace was performed.

	"breakpoint.png"
		A screenshot of a gdb session in which a breakpoint was set at the
		line in the "lab0.c" code where a null pointer is dereferenced,
		the program was run to that breakpoint, and the value of the NULL
		pointer was printed to the terminal.

	"README"
		The file you are currently viewing.

	"check.sh"
		a bash script that is called by "Makefile" when the "check" target is
		initiated.
		Performs 7 smoke tests to verify basic functionalities of the "lab0"
		program.

		The smoke-test cases are the following:

		    CASE 1: successful I/O test with "--input" and "--output":
		    	 Verifies successful reading from a valid input file specified
			 with "--input" and successful writing to a valid output file
			 specified with "--output".
			 Tests the case when the only options specified are "--input"
			 and "--output".
			 
		    CASE 2: successful I/O test with stdin and stdout:
		    	 Verifies successful reading from stdin and writing to stdout
			 when no option flags are specified.
			 
		    CASE 3: unrecognized arguments
		    	 Verifies correct error code and the output of a usage statement
			 when an invalid option is specified.

		    CASE 4: invalid input file
		    	 Verifies correct return code and error statement when a
			 nonexistant input file is specified with "--input"

		    CASE 5: invalid output file
		    	 Verifies correct return code and error statement when an
			 output file with no access permissions is specified with
			 "--output"

		    CASE 6: taking a segfault
		    	 Verifies correct return code and error statement when
			 the program takes a segfault due to the presence of the
			 "--segfault" flag.

		    CASE 7: catching a segfault
		    	 Verifies correct return code and error statement when
			 the "--catch" option is specified along with the
			 "--segfault" option.

references:

	the skeleton code in "Discussion1B_Week1.pptx" on CCLE, specifically the code
	on slides 11, 12, 13, 15, and 18.

	man pages for "getopt_long", "read", "write", and "creat".